## Documents

In MongoDB, data is primarily stored in **documents**, which are flexible, JSON-like structures that hold information about a single entity or record. This document-oriented approach allows for diverse data representation and avoids the rigid schema constraints of traditional relational databases.

**Characteristics:**

* **Self-contained:** Documents encapsulate all relevant data for a particular entity within them, eliminating the need for joins across multiple tables.
* **Schema-less:** Each document can have its own unique structure, providing flexibility for evolving data and accommodating diverse information.
* **Flexible data types:** Documents can contain various data types, including strings, numbers, booleans, arrays, nested objects, and more.
* **Key-value pairs:** Documents are composed of key-value pairs, where keys are strings and values represent the actual data.

**Example:**

```json
{
  "_id": ObjectId("5ebd22eec6932ca2061d1234"), // Unique identifier generated by MongoDB
  "name": "John Doe",
  "age": 30,
  "interests": ["reading", "hiking", "coding"],
  "address": {
    "street": "123 Main St",
    "city": "Anytown",
    "state": "CA"
  }
}
```

**Explanation:**

* This document represents a person named John Doe with age, interests, and address details.
* `_id`: A unique identifier automatically generated by MongoDB for each document.
* Each key-value pair represents a specific attribute of the person (name, age, etc.).
* The `interests` array holds multiple values.
* The `address` object is nested within the document, providing further structured data.

**Benefits:**

* **Flexibility:** Easily adapt data structures to changing requirements without altering the entire database schema.
* **Simplicity:** Easier to work with documents that resemble natural representations of data compared to complex relational tables.
* **Performance:** Queries can be optimized for retrieving specific data within documents, leading to efficient performance.

**Useful Commands:**
- To create a document :
```bash
  db.[collection-name].insertOne({ [key] : value }) #insert one document (key <=> attribute) 
  db.[collection-name].insertMany( [
     {  },
     {  },
     {  } 
     ] ) 
    #insert multiple documents
```
